This personal website is based off of the Github Pages template for academic personal websites, forked from mmistakes/minimal-mistakes (https://academicpages.github.io template).

## Installation
To update the website, it is key to have a locally served copy. In 2024, I served the website locally (on my Dell XPS) via WSL 2.0, running Ubuntu 20.04, and using the VSCode WSL extension.

The following instructions are for that setup. 

1. Enable WSL 2.0 
2. Install Ubuntu 20.04
3. Install Ruby 3.2.2
4. Install Gem, Ruby's dependency manager: `gem install bundler`
5. Clone this repository and cd into the top level. 
6. Install the project via `bundle install`.
7. Serve the site via `bundle exec jekyll serve`.

## Instructions to Serve Locally 
Build and serve your site locally with:
`bundle exec jekyll serve`
By default, the site will be available at http://127.0.0.1:4000.

## Todo List (Prioritized)
<!-- 1. Update biography.  -->
<!-- 2. Update publications.  -->
3. Fill out CV tab - add a hyperlink to a PDF of the CV
4. Add note about NAHT to bio!
5. Reformat publications page to be prettier.
  - Hyperlink to project page should be a 'learn more' tab. 
  - Figure out how to remove title from page. 
  - Fix spacing
  - Add bibtex for publications
  - Add presentation materials 

6. Figure out why projects page is not loading???
6. General Learning:
  - Figure out purpose of `_data/authors.yml`. Do I need to fill it out? 
  - Figure out purpose of the `markdown_generator` folder. 


## Updating Existing Part of Website


### To update biography and profile picture: 
Updating the profile picture: inside the `images` directory, replace `profile-caroline.png` by the desired photo. In order to change the photo name, inside `_config.yml`, modify the avatar sub-field under the `author` field in `_config.yml`.

Updating the long-form biography: edit the text at `_pages/about.md`. 

Updating the short bio: edit the `bio` field under the `author` field in `_config.yml`.

### Adding a Publication
Add a new `publication-name.md` file under the `_publications` directory.
Add project resources under `files/`. 

## To Add Pre-Configured Tab: 
Go to `_data/navigation.yml` and add a new key. Check that in `_config.yml`, the field `include` includes the desired directory. 
Have not figured out how to add an altogether new type of tab. 

## Notes about How Website Works
- General instructions can be found in `markdown.md`. 
- Site code (that is served) is generated by Jekyll (a static site generator), and stored in the `_site/` directory. The code is generated based on the contents of the other directories in the repository. 
- Liquid is a template language that is used here to create dynamic content for this static website. [Documentation](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/basics/introduction/) here.
 <!-- More about Liquid  -->
<!-- Liquid is a template language developed by Shopify, used to create dynamic content in static websites or applications. It is designed to be simple, secure, and easy to integrate. Liquid is widely used in static site generators like Jekyll (which powers GitHub Pages) and content management systems like Shopify.

Key Features of Liquid
Separation of Content and Logic:
Liquid lets you embed dynamic placeholders and logic (like loops, conditionals, and filters) into your static content without mixing in backend programming.

Simple Syntax:
Liquid uses two types of tags:

Output Tags: Use {{ ... }} to print data or variables.
Logic Tags: Use {% ... %} for logic such as loops, conditionals, and includes.
Filters:
Filters are modifiers that transform data (e.g., | relative_url or | upcase). You can chain filters for more complex transformations.

Safe by Design:
Liquid is designed to be secure, meaning it avoids exposing server-side data or executing unsafe operations. -->
